Variables and params docs page (#49)
neo4j/cypher-builder: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/variables-and-params.adoc

* `Variable`: Generic variable reference.
* `Path`: A variable to hold a path.

All variables are just virtual references to a Cypher variable that, will be translated to a unique name.

=== Defining a variable

An arbitrary Cypher variable can be defined with:

```javascript
const myVar = new Cypher.Variable();
```

This variable can then be used as an expression in any clause that supports variables, for instance:

```javascript
const myVar = new Cypher.Variable();
const query = new Cypher.Return(myVar)
```

```cypher
RETURN var0
```

The name `var0` is automatically generated when `.build()` is called to prevent name collision. If the variable is reused, the same name will be used in the generated Cypher, for instance:

```javascript
const myVar = new Cypher.Variable();
const query = new Cypher.With(myVar).return(myVar);
```

```cypher
WITH var0
RETURN var0
```

Each instance you create of a variable will be associated with a different name:

```javascript
const withVar = new Cypher.Variable();
const returnVar = new Cypher.Variable();
const query = new Cypher.With(withVar).return(returnVar);
```

```cypher
WITH var0
RETURN var1
```

=== Nodes and relationships

> Nodes and relationships are variables holding some extra data regarding nodes and relationships to be used in xref:patterns.adoc[Patterns].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes and relationships are variables holding extra data on nodes and relationships that can be used in xref:patterns.adoc[Patterns].
```

For example:

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.Node({labels: ["Movie"]});
const relationship = new Cypher.Relationship({type: "ACTED_IN"});

const pattern = new Cypher.Pattern(movie).related(relationship).to();
const match = new Cypher.Match(pattern).return(movie);
```

```Cypher
MATCH (this0:Movie)-[this1:ACTED_IN]->(this2)
RETURN this0
```

In this example, the node variable `movie` is created and then used in the `MATCH` and `RETURN` clauses.

In the translated Cypher, you can see how the node variable is translated to the Cypher variable `this0`, while the relationship is assigned to `this1`. These names are not defined in your JavaScript code, but are automatically generated when the query is built with `.build()`. The labels and type passed to `Node` and `Relationship` variables are used in the Pattern.

> The following parameters can be passed to Node:

Reviewer: I wonder whether this should be presented as a list. Will there be more parameters in the future, possibly?

```suggestion
The following parameters can be passed to a node:
```

Author: In this case Node is the name of the class to be called, so maybe it would be more accurate to say

```suggestion
The following parameters can be passed to a `Node` class:
```

* `labels`: An array containing the labels of that node.

The following parameters can be passed to a Relationship:

* `type`: A string with the type of the relationship

==== Escaping labels and types

Labels and types will be automatically escaped if any uncommon character is detected. For example:

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.Node({labels: ["My Movie"]});
const match = new Cypher.Match(movie).return(movie);
```

```Cypher
MATCH (this0:`My Movie`)
RETURN this0
```

> Note how `My Movie` is being surrounded in quotes to prevent code injection with dynamic labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
`My Movie` is being surrounded in quotes to prevent code injection with dynamic labels.
====
```

=== Path
Path variables can be used for path assignment in patterns, for example:

```cypher
MATCH p0 = (this1)-[this2:ACTED_IN]->(this3)
RETURN p0
```

To assign a path variable, use the method `.assignToPath` in the relevant clause and pass a `new Path()` instance:

```javascript
const path = new Cypher.Path();

const query = new Cypher.Match(pattern).assignToPath(path).return(path);
```

> === Named Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Named variables
```

> By default, variables do not have a name, and a unique name/id will be generated at build time to avoid collisions. However, in some cases, you may want to generate a query with a specific name. To do this, all variable types have a counterpart _named_ class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, variables do not have a name; a unique name/id is generated at build time to avoid collisions. 
However, in some cases, you may want to generate a query with a specific name. 
To do this, all variable types must have a counterpart _named_ class:
```

* `NamedVariable`
* `NamedNode`
* `NamedRelationship`
* `NamedPath`

These can be used in the same fashion as normal variables, but a name must be provided when creating them:

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.NamedNode("n", {labels: ["Movie"]});
const match = new Cypher.Match(movie).return(movie);
```

```Cypher
MATCH (n:Movie)
RETURN n
```

== Property
Variables such as nodes or maps may contain properties. To access these properties in the generated Cypher, you can use the method `.property` on variables:

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.Node({labels: ["Movie"]})
const query = new Cypher.Match(movie).return(movie.property("title"));
```

```cypher
MATCH(this0:Movie)
RETURN this0.title
```

=== Nested properties
Nested properties can also be accessed, either by passing multiple parameters or concatenating calls to `.property`:

```javascript
new Cypher.Variable().property("movie", "title");
new Cypher.Variable().property("movie").property("title")
```

> In both cases, the resulting Cypher will look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both cases, the resulting Cypher should look like:
```

```cypher
var0.movie.title
```

> === Using expressions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Expressions
```

Expressions can also be used as a property key, to dynamically access properties:

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.Node({labels: ["Movie"]})

const movieProperty = movie.property(Cypher.plus(new Cypher.Param("ti"), new Cypher.Literal("tle")))
const query = new Cypher.Match(movie).return(movieProperty);
```

> This will automatically use square brackets `[]` notation to safely execute the expression:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query automatically adds square brackets (`[]`) notation to safely execute the expression:
```

Parameters behave similarly to variables, however, they contain a defined value that will automatically be returned as part of the parameters when the `.build()` method is called.

For example:

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.Node({ labels: ["Movie"] });
const titleProp = movie.property(movie);

const query = new Cypher.Match(movie).where(Cypher.eq(titleProp, new Cypher.Param("The Matrix")));

const { cypher, params } = query.build();
```

Returns the following Cypher:

```cypher
MATCH (this0:Movie)
WHERE this0[this0] = $param0
```

And the following parameters object:

```js
{
    param0: "The Matrix"
}
```

Parameters can also be reused, like variables:

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.Node({ labels: ["Movie"] });
const titleProp = movie.property(movie);
const titleParam = new Cypher.Param("The Matrix");

const query = new Cypher.Match(movie).where(Cypher.eq(titleProp, titleParam)).return(titleParam);

const {cypher, params} = query.build();
```

_Cypher_
```cypher
MATCH (this0:Movie)
WHERE this0[this0] = $param0
RETURN this0, $param0
```

_Params_
```js
{
    param0: "The Matrix"
}
```

> In these cases, Cypher Builder takes care of providing a name to the parameter, and correctly linking it to the params object. 

Reviewer: Not sure if this is correct, so please take a look:

```suggestion
In these cases, Cypher Builder provides a name to the parameter and correctly links it to the `Param` object. 
```

> Note that if two instances of `Param` are used, then 2 separate parameters will be returned, regardless of the value, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that if two instances of `Param` are used, then two separate parameters should be returned, regardless of the value.
For example:
```

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.Node({ labels: ["Movie"] });
const titleProp = movie.property(movie);
const titleParam1 = new Cypher.Param("The Matrix");
const titleParam2 = new Cypher.Param("The Matrix")

const query = new Cypher.Match(movie).where(Cypher.eq(titleProp, titleParam1)).return(titleParam2);

const {cypher, params} = query.build();
```

_Cypher_
```cypher
MATCH (this0:Movie)
WHERE this0[this0] = $param0
RETURN this0, $param0
```

_Params_
```js
{
    param0: "The Matrix"
}
```

== Literal

> Literal values can be defined with `Cypher.Literal`. Literals behave like Parameters, but it will inject the value provided directly into the Cypher, serializing it as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Literal values can be defined with `Cypher.Literal`. Literals behave like Parameters, but they will inject the value provided directly into the Cypher, serializing it as needed.
```

For instance:

```javascript
const movie = new Cypher.Node({ labels: ["Movie"] });
const titleProp = movie.property(movie);
const titleLiteral = new Cypher.Literal("The Matrix")

const query = new Cypher.Match(movie).where(Cypher.eq(titleProp, titleParam)).return(titleParam);

const {cypher, params} = query.build();
```

_Cypher_
```cypher
MATCH (this0:Movie)
WHERE this0[this0] = "The Matrix"
RETURN this0, "The Matrix"
```

_Params_
```js
{ }
```

Note how the value `The Matrix` is not injected directly, but correctly serialized to a string in Cypher. The following values are supported by `Literal`:

* String: `Cypher.Literal("Hello")` -> `"Hello"`
* Number: `Cypher.Literal(5)` -> `5`
* Boolean: `Cypher.Literal(true)` -> `true`
* Array: `Cypher.Literal([5, "Hello"])` -> `[5, "Hello"]`
* Null: `Cypher.Literal(null)` -> `NULL`

[NOTE]
====

> Note that Literal does not escape the values and code injection is a risk. It is generally recommended to use `Cypher.Param` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Literals do not escape the values and code injection is a risk. 
It is generally recommended to use `Cypher.Param` instead.
```

====

> === NULL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== `NULL`
```

As a shortcut for `new Cypher.Literal(null)`, the constant `Cypher.Null` is available. This will be translated to `NULL`.

== Aliasing

> // Maybe aliasing can be moved to a how-to guide

Reviewer: I agree. But since this is about variables, it could be mentioned right before the section on Parameters starts and then link to this new page.

> Variables are commonly used for aliasing in a `WITH` or `RETURN` statement. To do that, simply pass a tuple of the value and its alias.

Reviewer: This opening chapter should be slightly reformulated in case we turn this section into a new page. I will leave it like that for now until we make a decision about this.

=== Aliasing to a string

```javascript
const node = new Cypher.Node({
    labels: ["Movie"],
});
const withQuery = new Cypher.With([node, "my-alias"]);
```

```cypher
WITH this0 AS my-alias
```

=== Aliasing to a variable

Instead of an exact string, you can alias to a `Cypher.Variable` so it can be reused as any other variable:

```javascript
const movieNode = new Cypher.Node({ labels: ["Movie"] });
const myVar = new Cypher.Variable();
const match = new Cypher.Match(movieNode).with([movieNode, myVar]).return([myVar, "Film"]);
```

```
MATCH (this0:`Movie`)
WITH this0 AS var1
RETURN var1 AS Film 
```

In the previous example, after a `MATCH` the node variable `this0` is aliased to a variable with an arbitrary name (`var1`) in a `WITH` statement. Finally, in the `RETURN` the variable is aliased to the specific name `Film` that will be returned.

// TODO

> // == Environment

Reviewer: Also wondering if this should be in the variables and params page or be separated. Since I don't know what's this is about, I just leave it as a note for you to judge. :)

Author: mmm, it is closely related, it could be on its own page, but I don't expect this section to be too big

When we decide to tackle this section (it is not really a priority, that's why I left it) we can decide on where to put it
